Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we are going to talk about variable hosting all right, now, before diving into this
whole topic of hoisting, I should tell you that the JavaScript engine does not hoist it doesn't move
things around as it is suggested.
Hoisting is actually a metaphor that we have made up.
It is an English language convention that we have made up to discuss the idea of lexical scope without
thinking about the lexical scope.
Now, hoisting is just our lexical scope that we have covered in the past two chapters, and it is nothing
else.
All right.
Now, if you know the lexical scope and if you know that there are two stages, there are two passes,
the compilation and the execution or the parsing and the execution.
It doesn't matter if you call it a compilation or if you call it parsing.
If you know, there are these two passes inside a lexical scope, then you will know what heisting is
and you will never be confused by hoisting, OK?
And you will never be misinformed by hoisting because hoisting is not actually a real thing.
It is.
This lets the idea of JavaScript being lexically scope language, right and hoisting means that the
execution engine, it literally it moves our code like up and down, it rearranges our code.
And that's not what it is.
Right.
And that's not what happens.
Now, before talking about this example, what I want to do is I want to go ahead and open up this.
I have opened up this developer, that Mozilla dot org, and it's just hosting.
We are going to go over hosting because this is one of the like one of the most mis like informed,
like, I don't know, like one of the most misused term in Java in the JavaScript world.
Now it says hosting is a term you will not find used in any normative specification process prior to
ECMAScript 2015 language specification.
Now, hoisting didn't even exist before ECMAScript 2015.
Hosting was thought was thought up as a general way of thinking.
Is the same thing that I told you.
Hosting was thought up as a general way of thinking about how execution contexts, specifically the
creation and execution phases.
There are two phases.
There are two passes work in JavaScript.
However, the concept can be a little confusing at first, but I do not agree with this part.
Hosting is very simple conceptually.
For example, a strict definition of hosting suggests that variable and function declarations are physically
moved to the top of your code.
But this is not in fact, what happens.
This is incorrect.
The JavaScript engine doesn't physically like move your rearrange your code.
It's not what happens.
That's how the execution works.
But the execution, like, uses the executable code to execute it.
It doesn't rearrange your code.
Right.
So unless it says here instead the variable and function declarations are put into memory during the
compiler phase, but stay exactly where you tag them in your code.
Right.
So there are like many examples of hosting here.
You can go over them, but they just wanted to show you the what what actually the documentation says.
Now, this is not the specification because there is actually something inside this documentation.
And that thing is there is something inside this documentation.
There is a sentence inside this documentation, which unfortunately, according to the ECMAScript specification,
is inaccurate.
And we are going to talk about this inaccuracy, this misinformation, which is very, very unfortunate
because MDN is like like the go to documentation for JavaScript, for HMRC assistant JavaScript.
And this is very, very unfortunate that this information is not in fact accurate.
Letton it says Letang cost consed are not also hosted, but this is not accurate.
Let and they do hoist but they hoist in a different way.
We are going to talk about this inaccuracy in our like.
In temporal temporal deadzone lecture, which is like two lectures ahead of us.
All right, so what I'm going to do is we are going to come inside the Savar and I think we should be
able to see unqualified vare hosting because variable declarations and declarations in general are processed
before any code is executed by declaring a variable anywhere in the code is equivalent to declaring
it at the top.
This also means that a variable can appear, it can appear to be used before it's to declare this behavior
is called hoisting.
But this is not actually hoisting.
This is what we have talked about.
We have talked about how the compilation stage works.
The compilation stage is mainly like concerned with this variable declaration.
The variable initialization is done inside in the execution stage.
We know that the compiler is going to ask the scope manager that have you heard of this identifier?
The scope manager is going to say no, but the scope manager is going to specify where this exists.
And when we talked about it in the compilation state, we didn't care what the value was because that
is the job of the execution, to store it, to allocate it, to allocate like kind of the word, to
allocate like a memory to a like space in memory to it.
OK, so we know that there are two passes and because there are two passes, the first pass is the variable
declaration and then we have the variable initialization.
This is why people get confused, because this is run first, then the Soren's.
It's like this code goes all the way to the top, but that's not where it goes.
It stays in its place and this is where the misconception comes in.
So if I were to save this code, if I were to say this code, we would be able to see for undefined
because in here book is not defined in here.
Book is not defined.
Excuse me, in here book is sorry.
This is movie.
Book is not defined here.
Movie is not defined here.
Book movie is not defined here, but they are defined here.
So if I say that we can see for undefined then we can see Dune and the movie Dune.
All right.
But this is now this is our regular code.
Now this is not a best practice to declare your variables like to create auto globalists, to declare
them inside the global scope and then initialize them.
This is not a best practice, but this is our regular code.
Now, what does the.
I'm just going to do a few dashes, the hoisting misconception, misconception, the.
What does the hoisting misconception say?
The hoisting misconception says that I'm just going to grab that uncommented out.
It says that this EVAR book is comes all the way here to the top of our coat.
And let's go ahead and let's let's put the movie, the book back here as well.
And this one.
Skopje's, let's put it here, let's remove the VA from here as well.
Now this is what the what hoisting suggests, that whenever the JavaScript runs your code, what it
does, it grabs all of your variables that a VA variable declarations not let.
OK, that is hoisted in a different way.
That does host.
But we are going to talk about let in two letters from now.
All right.
Let on const.
But now we're just discussing VA.
Keep in mind that these only apply to VA.
They don't apply to let and const.
So it says that when the JavaScript engine runs this we can see our book and our movie here, then all
the way they are defined right here.
So if I were to save this, we will be able to see the same result.
But this is not actually what happens.
The code is not rearranged.
All right.
And this is like a major misconception because each statement actually has to pass.
The first pass is going to be the compilation pass.
So I'm just going to I'm I'm going to put them here and I'm going to come in this one out.
So you know what the hoisting misconception is, right?
I'm going to come and this back in because the any statement has to pass.
Any formal declaration has to pass.
That's where the hoisting misconception comes.
People say developers say, OK, that this part goes all the way to top and it execute and it's compiled
there.
And then and then this part is stored in the memory.
But that's not how it works.
It does work.
It's always somehow like that.
But this never goes to the top.
Hoisting says the code is rearranged, but that's not something that actually happens.
It doesn't happen.
It just goes it goes through a compilation state or a passing state.
And after all, the formal declarations and their respective scopes have been defined that identifiers
Copeland will be handed over to the execution engine so the execution engine knows, OK, which verra
which value should be allocated, which space of memory.
Right.
So I think we are done here.
I just wanted to show you this.
And there is one more thing that I want to do here is I'm just going to grab this and, you know, I'm
going to go to the bottom of the code and I'm going to create a common paste it right here and I'm going
to grab the other link as well.
So you have it as a reference.
You can go to it and you can read about it.
All right.
So this is going to be it for variable hosting, which actually nothing is hoisted.
And then we are going to talk about the function hosting, which is discussed right here in our next
lecture.
So see you guys in the next lecture.